=== Text #45: Gabriel Marcel - Myself as a gift ===
Author: Gabriel Marcel (1889-1973)
Title: Myself as a gift
Tags: Ego, Gift, Humility, Responsibility, Personality
Passage:
Maybe there is no more fatal error than that which conceives of the ego as the secret home of originality. The best part of my personality does not belong to me. I am in no sense the owner, only the trustee. If I consider myself as the guardians of my gifts, responsible for their fruitfulness - that is to say, if I recognize in them a call, or perhaps a question to which I must respond - it will not occur to me to be proud about them, and to parade them before an audience, which (as I said before) really means before myself.
Indeed, if we think about it, there is nothing in me that cannot or should not be regarded as a gift. It is pure fiction to imagine a pre-existent self to whom those gifts were given thanks to certain rights that I have, or as a reward for my previous merits.

=== Text #44: Johann Gottfried Herder - Between two worlds ===
Author: Johann Gottfried Herder (1744-1803)
Title: Between two worlds
Tags: Dual nature, Spirituality, Materialism, Purpose, Human condition
Passage:
The curious inconsistency of the human condition becomes clear: As an animal, the human being tends to the earth, and is attached to it as his dwelling place. As a human being, he has within him the seeds of immortality, which require to be planted in another soil. As an animal, he can satisfy his wants, and people who are content with this feel themselves sufficiently happy here below; but those who seek a nobler purpose find everything around them imperfect and incomplete. What is most noble is never accomplished upon the earth, what is most pure is rarely stable and long-lasting. This arena is only a place of exercise and trial for the powers of our hearts and minds. The history of the human species - including what it has attempted and what has happened to it, the efforts it has made and the revolutions it has undergone - proves this sufficiently.

=== Text #43: Sophie de Condorcet - Noble love ===
Author: Sophie de Condorcet (1764-1822)
Title: Noble love
Tags: Love, Virtue, Esteem, Generosity, Brotherhood
Passage:
A person who is worthy of esteem is happy to esteem others. His heart is easily moved by the mere thought of a good action, and it is tied and attached to anybody he thinks can perform such an action. He is happy to be with him, and their brotherhood of virtue creates between them freedom and equality, which they may experience tenderly like the tenderness between the closest blood and natural relatives.
It is so true that the pleasure we find in loving comes (at least in the case of friendship), to a large extent, from our pleasure of making people happy through our affections, so that only generous souls can love. Souls that lack magnanimity or nobility, or that have been corrupted by selfishness, might want to be loved and might seek love's delight and fruits, but only generous hearts who can be touched by the happiness of others really know how to love.

=== Text #42: Blaise Pascal - The dignity of thought ===
Author: Blaise Pascal (1623-1662)
Title: The dignity of thought
Tags: Thought, Consciousness, Dignity, Reason, Existence
Passage:
Man is but a reed, the most feeble thing in nature; but he is a thinking reed. The entire universe need not arm itself to crush him. A vapor, a drop of water suffices to kill him. But, if the universe were to crush him, man would still be more noble than that which killed him, because he knows that he dies and the advantage which the universe has over him; the universe knows nothing of this.
All our dignity consists, then, in thought. By it we must elevate ourselves; not by space or time which we cannot fill. Let us endeavor then to think well; this is the principle of morality.
A thinking reed: It is not from space that I must seek my dignity but from government over my thought; I shall have no more if I possess worlds; by space universe encompasses me like an atom; by thought I comprehend world.

=== Text #41: Joaquín Xirau Palau - The metaphysics of crisis ===
Author: Joaquín Xirau Palau (1895-1945)
Title: The metaphysics of crisis
Tags: Crisis, Modernity, Meaning, Spirit, Reality
Passage:
The social and political crisis through which the world is passing has a metaphysical background that has been little noticed, or is wholly unknown to the great majority of people. It persists in the air that we breathe; its presence is so familiar that it is imperceptible.
Modern life is chaos, not Cosmos. As such, it lacks a center, it is meaningless, aimless. The ancient world was an organism. And, as in every organism, each part served the whole, and the whole gave service to the parts. The living body of reality had its foundation in the material realm, and its culmination was in the splendor of the spirit. The organism splits and disappears. We are left only with the duality of matter and spirit, the real and the ideal. The glory of the world is reduced to either one or the other. Thus transformed into a thin thread of ideas or an endless flux of causes and effects, the world becomes an illusion. And through idealism and materialization, mathematical calculus or atomic movement, it tends to dissolve into nothingness.

=== Text #40: Emil Cioran - The desire to be nothing ===
Author: Emil Cioran (1911-1995)
Title: The desire to be nothing
Tags: Nothingness, Self, Solitude, Fulfiment, Disappearance
Passage:
Once the shutters are closed, I stretch out in the dark. The outer world, a fading murmur, dissolves. All that is left is myself and there's the rub. Hermits have spent their lives in dialogue with what was most hidden within them. If only, following their example, I could give myself up to that extreme exercise, in which one unites with the intimacy of one's own being! It is this self-interview, this inward transition which matters, and which has no value unless continually renewed, so that the self is finally absorbed by its essential version.
The faint light in each of us which dates back to before our birth, to before all births, is what must be protected if we want to rejoin that remote glory from which we shall never know why we were separated.
I have never known a single sensation of fulfiment, of true happiness, without thinking that it was the moment when - now or never - I should disappear for good.

=== Text #39: Juan Bautista Alberdi - Philosophy as Freedom ===
Author: Juan Bautista Alberdi (1810-1884)
Title: Philosophy as Freedom
Tags: Freedom, Reason, Philosophy, Emancipation, Civilization
Passage:
Since philosophy is the denial of all authority other than the authority of reason, philosophy is the mother of all emancipation, of all freedom, of all social progress. There is only one freedom - that of reason, which has as many phases as there are elements in the human spirit. So when all these freedoms, or phases of rational freedom, do not exist at the same time, it can be said that no freedom properly exists. To be free is not merely to act according to reason, but also to think according to reason, to believe according to reason, to write according to reason, to see according to reason. If, then, we want to be free, let us first be worthy of it. Freedom does not come in a flash. It is the slow birth of civilization. Freedom is not the conquest of a day; it is one of the purposes of humanity, a purpose that it will never achieve except relatively.

=== Text #38: Augustine - The desire for wisdom ===
Author: Augustine (354-430 AD)
Title: The desire for wisdom
Tags: Wisdom, Happiness, Truth, Mind, Desire, Philosophy
Passage:
Just as it is agreed that we all wish to be happy, so too it is agreed that we all wish to be wise, because who is happy without wisdom? Because nobody is satisfied without the supreme good which is discovered and possessed in the truth which we call wisdom.

Even before we are happy, the idea of happiness is impressed on our mind. This is how we know, and can assert confidently and with no doubt whatsoever, that we wish to be happy. Similarly, even before we are wise, the notion of wisdom is stamped on our mind. That is why each of us, if asked whether he wants to be wise, replies without a shadow of doubt that he does.

Because if your mind was not somehow aware of what wisdom is, you would never know that you desire to be wise, or that you should desire to be wise - and neither of them, I think, you will deny.

=== Text #37: Søren Kierkegaard - Subjectivity is Truth ===
Author: Søren Kierkegaard (1813-1855)
Title: Subjectivity is Truth
Tags: Subjectivity, Truth, Existence, Passion, Authenticity
Passage:
In relation to their systems most systematizers are like a man who builds an enormous castle but lives next door in a shack; they do not live within their own systematic thought-existence.

What matters isn't what objective truth might be but how one relates oneself subjectively towards whatever one believes.

Subjectivity means inwardness; truth means passionate inward appropriation process whereby individual appropriates truth personally making it part their very existence.

At its highest subjectivity becomes passion where individual stakes entire existence upon belief thus achieving highest possible form truth available finite human beings namely subjective truth authenticated through personal commitment rather than objective certainty provided external evidence alone could never provide sufficient basis such commitment requires risk faith uncertainty inherent any genuine existential decision about ultimate concerns life meaning etcetera.

=== Text #36: Francis Herbert Bradley - Harmony in the absolute ===
Author: Francis Herbert Bradley (1846-1924)
Title: Harmony in the absolute
Tags: Absolute, Harmony, Reality, Unity, Idealism
Passage:
We can find no province of the world so low that the Absolute does not inhabit it. Nowhere is there even a single fact so fragmentary and so poor that it does not matter to the universe. There is truth in every idea however false, there is reality in every existence however slight; and where we can point to reality or truth, there is the one undivided life of the Absolute.

But on the other hand, Reality is not the sum of things. It is the unity in which all things, coming together, are transformed, although not equally. And in this unity, relations of separation and hostility are affirmed and absorbed. These relations, too, are harmonious in the Whole.

Extreme hostility implies a more intense relation, and this relation is part of the Whole and enriches its unity. The apparent disharmony and disturbance is overruled into harmony, and it is the condition of fuller and more individual development.

=== Text #35: Simone de Beauvoir - The value of freedom ===
Author: Simone de Beauvoir (1908-1986)
Title: The value of freedom
Tags: Freedom, Responsibility, Existence, Choice, Ethics
Passage:
Regardless of the incredible dimensions of the world around us, the density of our ignorance, the risks of catastrophes, and our weakness as individuals within the immense collectivity, the fact remains that we are absolutely free today if we choose to want our existence in its finiteness, a finiteness which is open to the infinite.

And in fact, any person who has known real loves, real revolts, real desires, and real will knows quite well that he does not need any external guarantee in order to be sure of his goals. His certainty in them comes from his own drive.

There is a very old saying which goes: "Do what you must, whatever happens." If each person did what he must, existence would be saved in each person without any need to dream about a paradise where everything would be reconciled with death.

=== Text #34: Simone Weil - To accept the void ===
Author: Simone Weil (1909-1943)
Title: To accept the void
Tags: Void, Detachment, Surrender, Good, God, Nothingness
Passage:
We must accept emptiness instead trying fill it up with imaginary satisfactions.

We must not seek being but rather consent not-to-be.

To detach ourselves from imaginary goods so real good may come.

To wait patiently inactive while time passes leaving us empty until real inspiration comes.

All sins are attempts fill voids.

Each void presents itself as need.

And every need tends toward its satisfaction unless we stop it voluntarily accepting void instead satisfaction thus transforming need into desire for absolute good which cannot be satisfied by anything finite but only by infinite reality itself namely God who alone can fill infinite abyss within human soul created for Him alone.

=== Text #33: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel - Spirit is freedom ===
Author: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel (1770-1831)
Title: The dialectical movement of spirit
Tags: Spirit, Freedom, Dialectic, Absolute, History
Passage:
Just as the essence of matter is gravity, so, in contrast, we may affirm that the essence of Spirit is Freedom. Everybody will easily agree that Spirit also has, among other properties, Freedom; but philosophy teaches that all the qualities of Spirit exist only through Freedom; that all these qualities are only means for attaining Freedom; that all of them seek and produce this and only this. It is a result of speculative philosophy that freedom is the only truth of Spirit.

Matter possesses gravity because of its tendency toward a central point. It is essentially composite - consisting of parts that exclude each other. It seeks its unity.

Spirit, in contrast, may be defined as that which has its center in itself. It does not have a unity outside itself, but it has already found it; it exists in and with itself. Matter has its essence out of itself; Spirit has self-contained existence.

=== Text #32: Johann Gottlieb Fichte - The voice of conscience ===
Author: Johann Gottlieb Fichte (1762-1814)
Title: The voice of conscience
Tags: Conscience, Duty, Freedom, Self-sufficiency, Autonomy
Passage:
Conscience never errs nor can err because it consists simply in being conscious that we have applied our moral principle correctly.

Conscience commands absolutely without any condition.

Its voice speaks immediately within me when I reflect upon my duty.

I cannot evade its decision nor seek any external justification.

I must obey unconditionally even if all sensible beings were against me.

This voice alone gives me true self-sufficiency because through it I become independent from everything outside myself including other people's opinions.

Through conscience I become free because I follow only my own law which I give myself through reason.

=== Text #31: Boethius of Dacia - The pursuit of wisdom ===
Author: Boethius of Dacia (c.1240-c.1290)
Title: The pursuit of wisdom
Tags: Wisdom, God, Good, Ultimate end, Happiness
Passage:
The supreme good for man consists in knowing God through wisdom; because through wisdom we know everything knowable about God insofar as it can be known by human reason illuminated by faith; and through this knowledge we are united with God who alone can satisfy our will completely since He alone possesses infinite goodness capable of satisfying infinitely our capacity for good which was created for Him alone.

Therefore let us pursue wisdom above all else because through it we attain our ultimate end which consists entirely in knowing God who alone can make us happy eternally.

=== Text #30: Jean-Jacques Rousseau - Virtue, freedom, love ===
Author: Jean-Jacques Rousseau (1712-1778)
Title: Virtue, freedom, love
Tags: Virtue, Freedom, Love, Nature, Self-love
Passage:
The first impulses of nature are always right; there is no original sin in the human heart; every vice can be traced to its beginning step by step.

The only passion natural to man is self-love - or selfishness taken in an extended sense. This selfishness considered relative to ourselves is good and useful; and since it has no necessary relation to others it becomes indifferent by nature: It becomes good or bad only by application and according to circumstances.

Until reason's guide appears children should do nothing except by physical necessity: They should never obey someone else's will nor command others' will themselves.

=== Text #29: Aldous Huxley - The self as an island ===
Author: Aldous Huxley (1894-1963)
Title: The self as an island
Tags: Self, Unity, Soul, Light, Transcendence, Connection
Passage:
We live in succession - in division - in parts - in particles. Meantime within man is the soul of the whole; the wise silence; the universal beauty - to which every part and particle is equally related; the eternal ONE.

And this deep power in which we exist and whose beatitude is all accessible to us - is not only self-sufficing and perfect in every hour - but also active like light - passing through us as if we were transparent - and making us see all things in its rays; a light which shines through us upon things and makes them beautiful.

We are like islands in the sea - separate on the surface but connected in the deep.

=== Text #28: John Sullivan Dwight - Music is of unity ===
Author: John Sullivan Dwight (1813-1893)
Title: Music is of unity
Tags: Music, Unity, Beauty, Ideal, Soul, Transcendence
Passage:
Music does not express this or that particular joy, this or that sorrow, pain or devotion, or peace - but joy, sorrow, pain, devotion or peace themselves in their abstract essence: as perfect types and therefore as they exist in the mind of God and in the inner nature of things.

Music reveals to us an unknown kingdom - a world that has nothing in common with the outer world of sense that surrounds us, and in which we leave behind all definite feelings to surrender ourselves to an inexpressible longing.

In music we feel ourselves at home in a higher sphere; we are citizens of an ideal world where we find again our true selves - our deepest being - and where we are united with all who share this inner life.

=== Text #27: Jean Paul Sartre - Existence before essence ===
Author: Jean Paul Sartre (1905-1980)
Title: Existence before essence
Tags: Existentialism, Freedom, Choice, Self-creation, Authenticity
Passage:
What do we mean by saying that existence precedes essence? We mean that man first of all exists, encounters himself, surges up in the world - and defines himself afterwards. If man as the existentialist sees him is not definable, it is because to begin with he is nothing. He will not be anything until later, and then he will be what he makes of himself. Thus, there is no human nature, because there is no God to have a conception of it.

Man simply is. Not that he is simply what he conceives himself to be, but he is what he wills - and as he conceives himself after already existing - as he wills to be after that leap towards existence. Man is nothing else but that which he makes of himself. That is the first principle of existentialism.

=== Text #26: Erich Fromm - The art of loving ===
Author: Erich Fromm (1900-1980)
Title: The art of loving
Tags: Love, Orientation, Activity, Giving, Universal love
Passage:
Love is not primarily a relationship to a specific person. It is an attitude, an orientation of character which determines the relatedness of a person to the world as a whole, not toward one "object" of love.

If a person loves only one other person and is indifferent to the rest of his fellow human beings, his love is not love but a symbiotic attachment, or an enlarged egotism.

When one does not see that love is an activity, a power of the soul, one believes that it is only necessary to find the right object - and everything will work by itself afterwards.

If I truly love one person, I love all persons, I love the world, I love life. If I can say to somebody else, "I love you," I must be able to say "I love in you everybody, I love through you the world, I love in you also myself."

=== Text #25: Giacomo Leopardi - Levels of self-knowledge ===
Author: Giacomo Leopardi (1798-1837)
Title: Levels of self-knowledge
Tags: Self-knowledge, Experience, Wisdom, Destiny, Self-awareness
Passage:
No one becomes a man (or woman) before he has had considerable experience of himself which reveals himself to himself, and determines his opinion of himself, and thus determines his destiny and his condition in life. Before this great experience, nobody in the world is much more than a child.

However, if this experience does occur - then he knows from experience the nature of the passions, he knows his own nature and temperament, he has a sense of his own abilities and strengths. And by now, he can judge himself and what he must hope for or despair of from himself, and what place he is probably destined to have in the world.

In short, life appears different to his eyes, since it has changed for him from a thing heard to a thing seen, from something imagined to something real, and he feels that he is in the middle of it, perhaps not happier but more powerful than before, in other words more inclined to make good use of himself and of others.

=== Text #24: Friedrich Nietzsche - The self-creator ===
Author: Friedrich Nietzsche (1844-1900)
Title: The self-creator
Tags: Freedom, Self-creation, Will, Values, Loneliness, Creator
Passage:
You call yourself free? I want to hear your dominating thought, not to hear that you have escaped from a yoke. Are you one of those who has the RIGHT to escape from a yoke? Some people threw away their last value when they threw away their servitude.

Free FROM what? That doesn't matter to Zarathustra! But your eyes should tell me brightly: Free FOR what? Can you give yourself your own evil and your own good, and place your own will above yourself as a law? Can you be your own judge and punisher of your law? It is terrible to be alone with the judge and punisher of one's own law. That is how a star is thrown out into the void and into the icy breath of solitude.

=== Text #23: Maurice Maeterlinck - The deeper life ===
Author: Maurice Maeterlinck (1862-1949)
Title: The deeper life
Tags: Higher life, Infinite, Spirituality, Communications, Awakening
Passage:
Each person has to search for his own special ability for a higher life in the midst of the humble and inescapable reality of daily existence. There can be no nobler aim in life than this. It is only through our communications with the infinite that we can be distinguished from each other. If the hero is greater than the wretch who walks by his side, it is because at a certain moment of his existence he became more fully conscious of one of these communications.

It is within our power to increase these communications. In the life of every person there was a day when the heavens opened by themselves, and this moment is almost always the birth of his true spiritual personality. Certainly, this moment forms our invisible, eternal features that we reveal (although we don't know it) to angels and to souls. But with most people it is only chance that caused the heavens to open.

=== Text #22: Plotinus - Spiritual beauty ===
Author: Plotinus (204-270 AD)
Title: Spiritual beauty
Tags: Beauty, Soul, Vision, Good, Transcendence, Truth
Passage:
There are beauties that are more fundamental and high than the beauty of material objects. In the world of the senses we no longer know them, but the soul, which does not rely on sense-organs, sees them and announces them. We must ascend to the vision of these beauties, and leave the senses in their low place.

Such a vision is only for those who see with the sight of the Soul. And when they experience this vision, they rejoice, and they are filled with joy and with agitation that is deeper than anything else, because now they are moving in the realm of truth. This is the spirit which beauty always inspires, wonderment and a delicious agitation, longing and love and a delightful trembling.

Therefore we must ascend again towards the Good, which is what every soul desires. Anyone who has seen it, knows what I mean when I say that it is beautiful.

=== Text #21: Maria Zambrano - The irrational light ===
Author: Maria Zambrano (1904-1991)
Title: The irrational light
Tags: Sleep, Dream, Darkness, Light, Heart, Depth
Passage:
One must fall asleep above in the light. One must be awake below in the intra-terrestrial, intra-corporal darkness of the various bodies which terrestrial man inhabits: that of the earth, of the universe, of his own.

Down there in "the depths," in the underworlds, the heart watches, is kept awake, is reawakened within itself.

Up above, in the light, the heart abandons itself, surrenders. It collects itself. It finally falls asleep no longer in pain. In the welcoming light where no violence is suffered, one has arrived to that light without forcing any door and even without opening it, without having passed through lintels of light and shadow, without effort and protection.

=== Text #20: Friedrich Schiller - The sublime ===
Author: Friedrich Schiller (1759-1805)
Title: The sublime
Tags: Sublime, Beauty, Freedom, Spirit, Autonomy, Reason
Passage:
There are two capacities which nature gave us as companions throughout life. In the first we recognize the feeling of the beautiful, in the second the feeling of the sublime.

With beauty we feel ourselves free, because our senses are in harmony with the laws of reason. With the sublime we feel ourselves free, because our senses have no influence on the realm of reason, because the spirit acts as if it stands only under its own laws.

The feeling of the sublime is a mixed feeling. It is a combination of anxiety, which expresses itself in its highest degree as a shudder, and of joy, which can rise to ecstasy. And although it is not precisely pleasure, delicate souls generally prefer it to every pleasure.

We sense through the feeling of the sublime that our spiritual nature is not necessarily determined by the state of our senses; that the laws of nature are not necessarily our laws; and that we have in us an autonomous principle, independent of all sensuous impressions.

=== Text #19: Aristotle - Happiness and virtue ===
Author: Aristotle (384-322 BC)
Title: Happiness and virtue
Tags: Happiness, Virtue, Pleasure, Goodness, Flourishing, Eudaimonia, Ethics
Passage:
Pleasure belongs to the soul, and pleasure for each person is about what he is a lover of: Horses for horse-lovers, and plays for theater-lovers, and in the same way justice is pleasant for a person who loves justice. And, in general, things that conform with virtue are pleasant for those who love virtue.

Now, the pleasures of most people are in conflict with each other, because they are not pleasant by their nature. But the lovers of goodness take pleasure in things that are pleasant by their nature. Such are always actions in conformity to virtue, so they are pleasant in themselves to lovers of goodness. The life of these people does not need extra pleasure as an additional attraction, because it contains its pleasure in itself.

But if so, then virtuous actions must be pleasant in themselves. But they are also good and noble. And they are good and noble in the highest degree, since the good person makes good judgements about these things. Happiness, then, is the best, noblest, and most pleasant thing in the world.

=== Text #18: George Santayana - Beauty as perfection ===
Author: George Santayana (1863-1952)
Title: Beauty as perfection
Tags: Beauty, Perfection, Harmony, Soul, Nature, Morality, Aesthetics
Passage:
Our mind is satisfied when it finds harmony between who we are and what we experience: It finds it in the experience of beauty. When our perceptions and our imagination find what they crave - so that the correspondence between them is perfect, then perception is pleasure and existence needs no apology. The duality which is the condition of conflict disappears.

Beauty therefore seems to be the clearest manifestation of perfection, and the best evidence of its possibility. If perfection is, as it should be, the ultimate justification of being, we may understand the moral dignity of beauty. Beauty is a testimony of the possible agreement between the soul and nature, and consequently a reason for faith in the supremacy of the good.

=== Text #17: Ralph Waldo Emerson - The Over-Soul ===
Author: Ralph Waldo Emerson (1803-1882)
Title: The Over-Soul
Tags: Over-Soul, Transcendence, Inspiration, Unity, Universal, Wisdom
Passage:
Man is a stream whose source is hidden. Our being descends into us from we know not where. I am forced every moment to acknowledge a higher origin of events than the will which I call "mine."

As with events, so is it with thoughts. When I watch that flowing river which, out of regions I don't see, pours for a while its streams into me, I see that I am a pensioner - not a cause, but a surprised spectator of this ethereal water; that I may desire and search and be receptive, but from some alien energy the visions come.

We live in succession, in division, in parts, in particles. Meantime, within each person is the soul of the whole; the wise silence; the universal beauty; to which every part and particle is equally related; the eternal ONE.

=== Text #16: Miguel de Unamuno - Love as self-pity ===
Author: Miguel de Unamuno (1864-1936)
Title: Love as self-pity
Tags: Love, Compassion, Self-pity, Death, Nothingness, Brotherhood
Passage:
To love spiritually is to feel compassion, and whoever feels most compassionate loves most. People who burn with charity towards their fellow human beings feel this way because they have understood the depths of their own misery, of their own lack of substance, their own nothingness. And then, after turning their opened eyes towards their fellow human beings, they see that these people too are equally miserable, subject to annihilation, and they feel for them compassion and love.

From this love or compassion for yourself, from this intense despair, from the knowledge that you will not exist after you die just as you did not exist before your birth, you go on to feel compassion for - that is, love to - all your fellow human beings in this world of appearance, those miserable shadows who walk about, going from nothingness to nothingness, mere sparks of consciousness shining for a moment in the infinite and eternal darkness.

=== Text #15: Susan Langer - Life of feeling ===
Author: Susan Langer (1895-1985)
Title: Life of feeling
Tags: Feeling, Art, Objectification, Life, Imagination, Emotion
Passage:
Pure sensation - now pain, now pleasure - have no unity, and they change the person's sensitivity only in simple ways. What is important in human life is sensations that are interpreted and shaped: remembered and anticipated, feared or wanted, or even imagined and avoided.

The continuity of thought systematizes our emotions into attitudes with distinct qualities, and determines the scope of an individual's emotions. In other words: thanks to our thought and imagination we have not only feelings, but a LIFE OF FEELING.

The artist does not have to experience in actual life every emotion he can express. By manipulating the elements he created, he may discover new possibilities of feelings, strange moods, perhaps concentrations of passion that are greater than his own temperament could ever produce. Because although a work of art reveals the character of subjectivity, it is itself objective. Its purpose is to objectify the LIFE OF FEELING.

=== Text #14: Epictetus - ENCHIRIDION ===
Author: Epictetus (55-135 AD)
Title: ENCHIRIDION (135 AD)
Tags: Stoicism, Acceptance, Duty, Role-playing, Moderation, Fate
Passage:
15. Remember that you must behave in life like at a dinner party. Is a dish brought to you? Put out your hand and take your share with moderation. Does it pass away from you? Don't stop it. Has it not arrived yet? Don't stretch your hand, but wait until it reaches you. Do this regarding children, wife, public posts, riches, and you will eventually be a worthy participant in the feasts of the gods.

17. Remember that you are an actor in a drama, of whatever kind the author wished to make it. If it is short, then short; if it is long, then long. If he wishes you to act the role of a poor man, or a cripple, or a governor, or a private person, make sure that you act it properly. Because this is your task, to act well the character that was assigned you. To choose your part is somebody else's business.

=== Text #13: Michel de Montaigne - Solitude ===
Author: Michel de Montaigne (1533-1592)
Title: ESSAYS, Book 1, Chapter 39: "Solitude"
Tags: Solitude, Self, Freedom, Inner chains, Mind, Isolation
Passage:
It is not enough to get away from the public, and not enough to go to another place. We have to get away from the conditions of the public that are inside us. It is our own self that we have to isolate and possess again.

"I have broken my chain," you say. But a dog may break its chain and still carry a long part of it connected to its neck - Persius

We carry our chains with us. Our freedom is not total. We still look at the things we have left behind. Our imagination is still full of them. Our disease lies in the mind, and it cannot escape from itself.

"The mind which never escapes from itself is at fault" - Horace

So we must bring back the mind and drag it into itself. That is the true solitude. It can be enjoyed in towns and in kings' courts, but more conveniently alone.

=== Text #12: Novalis - Poetry and philosophy ===
Author: Novalis (1772-1801)
Title: LOGICAL FRAGMENTS I:25
Tags: Poetry, Philosophy, Unity, Whole, Romanticism, Sympathy
Passage:
Poetry elevates each single thing through a particular combination with the rest of the whole. And while philosophy prepares the world for the active influence of ideas, poetry is the key to philosophy - to its purpose and meaning. Because poetry shapes the beautiful society, the world-family, the beautiful home of the universe.

Philosophy strengthens the powers of the individual with the powers of humanity and the universe, through system and state, making the whole the instrument of the individual, and the individual the instrument of the whole. In the same way, poetry functions regarding life: The individual lives in the whole and the whole in the individual. Through poetry there arises the highest sympathy and common activity, the most intimate communion of the finite and the infinite.

=== Text #11: Willem Zuurdeeg - Philosophy as a cry ===
Author: Willem Zuurdeeg (1906-1963)
Title: MAN BEFORE CHAOS
Tags: Philosophy as cry, Authenticity, Awakening, Passion, Meaning, God
Passage:
Philosophy is born in a cry. The fountain of philosophizing is not cold, abstract intellectualizing, but a deep and passionate concern about life and its meaning.

Plato's birth as a philosopher came when he cried out loud: "Being MUST prevail over meaninglessness and death!"

The philosophical crying out suggests that a person can become authentically human when he has cried out in anxiety and triumph, in angry rebellion and in joyful reverence. Someone or some event touches him in a vital way, hurts him, knocks him over. When this happens, the cover is removed from a deeper, fuller possibility of his being. A self which had been trapped, or is sleeping, is liberated or awakened.

Through such crying out, the person can become more truly himself, reaching out toward fulfilled humanity by establishing a fuller relationship to his own being, to others, to his world, and to his God.

=== Text #10: Gabriel Marcel - Generosity as light ===
Author: Gabriel Marcel (1889-1973)
Title: MYSTERY OF BEING (1951)
Tags: Generosity, Light, Giving, Spirituality, Existence, Illumination
Passage:
To give is to expand, to expand oneself. But we must be careful not to interpret this in a material way, as if something that is too full flows out. The soul of the gift is its generosity, and obviously generosity is a virtue which must be carefully distinguished from excess.

Wouldn't an accurate definition of generosity be: A LIGHT WHOSE JOY IS TO GIVE LIGHT, TO BE LIGHT?

The special property of light is that it illuminates, it illuminates for others. This goes beyond the distinction between for me and for others. We might even say that this distinction does not exist for the light. If the joy of light is to be light, then it can only wish to be always more so. Light knows itself, then, as illuminating; and this knowledge is not like a sense of weakening and wasting itself, but on the contrary - it helps to increase its power. Like fire, generosity nurtures itself.

=== Text #9: José Ortega y Gasset - Love as flow ===
Author: José Ortega y Gasset (1883-1955)
Title: ON LOVE (1939)
Tags: Love, Flow, Beloved, Migration, Continuity, Emanation
Passage:
Love goes from lover to beloved - from me to other in a centrifugal direction.

When love abandons tranquility and stability within, we migrate virtually toward the beloved in a constant state of migration. This is what love is.

Love is prolonged in time. One does not love in a series of sudden moments, in isolated instants that ignite and die like a spark. The lover loves the beloved in continuity - love is a flow, a stream, a spiritual matter that flows continually like a fountain.

Love is an explosion, a continued emanation, a psychic radiation that proceeds from the lover to the beloved, not as a single discharge or current.

=== Text #8: Nikolai Berdyaev - Courage and Fear ===
Author: Nikolai Berdyaev (1874-1948)
Title: THE DIVINE AND HUMAN (1944)
Tags: Fear, Courage, Freedom, Anxiety, Spirituality, Emancipation
Passage:
Man lives in fear - fear of life, fear of death. Fear rules the life of the individual and of society. Anxiety and insecurity are the conditions of life, and eventually give rise to fear. What is most serious is that fear distorts thought and interrupts the knowledge of truth.

Fear always relates to the suffering that has been experienced. Suffering is a kind of terror, and suffering is impossible without fear. We cannot dissociate fear from suffering. Fear is a central fact of human life. Man is dragged away from the higher world toward the lower world by fear.

The emancipation from fear is the main spiritual task of man. Achieving fearlessness is the highest condition of man. It is a question of achievement because no one can say that fear is entirely unknown to him.